Hello and welcome everyone.
We're coming to you live from Sundsvall
for this global town hall.
Thank you very much everyone for coming
here today.
And again,
we've got the the balconies full with so
many people.
We don't have a camera set up there,
so we can't show them off.
So you'll just have to trust me that with
that,
thank you everyone for joining from
across the world.
Now we know a lot of people have dialed
in early in the morning.
A lot of people have dialed in late at
night and we appreciate that.
And we wanted to show that appreciation
by actually bringing some of those people
from from Permobil who are who are
joining us from this town hall live and
sharing them with us on on camera today.
So let's see if we can get the technology
to work.
This is the moment we hold our
breath, especially me.
James, Are you there?
Yeah, we're here.
Hi there.
James, give us a word.
Where are you?
What's going on there today?
Hey, we're in New Berlin, WI.
We're the home of Comfort and the
greatest cushions in the world.
This is our wonderful team back here.
Thank you very much.
Love the banners there.
Oh yes, Byron.
Well, hi everyone.
I'm so happy to see you all today.
I'm Byron from Taiwan,
also from Permobil APAC.
I look forward to today's time for
meeting to connect and share.
Thank you very much.
Staying in APAC,
we're now going to have the man who never
seems to sleep.
Owen, can you hear us?
Can you sign in from your Bat cave?
Owen,
I am dialing in from the Bat cave here
in Australia.
I will see him.
I'm working for Permobil APAC.
It's great to see everybody on the call
and I look forward to hearing today's
meeting.
Thank you, Owen.
And now let's jump to Shanghai.
Who's there?
Do you try again, Yishen
It's funny, after five years since COVID,
we still can't unmute ourselves all the
time.
But that's OK.
Give us a wave, Yishen,
Thank you very much.
All right, Yeah, now we've got you.
And then now we're going to jump back to
the Americas,
and we have Jessica and the team in
Lebanon.
I'm sure I've mispronounced that, right?
Hey, good morning, Romit.
Good morning, Jessica.
Good morning, Team Lebanon.
And then last but not least,
we're going to join our team in Treviso,
the home of our Progeo product range.
Ciao.
Sharon, Hi.
Can you hear me?
OK?
Good.
Hi.
From Treviso.
Let me show you the room here.
We prepared something for you.
Hey.
And wave something.
Hey, thank you very much.
Of course.
Hi Christian, nice to see everyone there.
Thank you.
So that's just a small sample of our team
around the world.
Of course,
we know that there are many others who
are dialing in late, early.
There's even some who are at the middle
of the afternoon just like us.
But we will need to give them a shout out
and show off the
Permobil family here today.
So let's get down to to business.
The first ground rule of today's town
hall,
which is the same ground rule as every
town hall,
is that this is an internal meeting and
all the information that's shared here is
confidential.
So please don't take any screenshots from
your laptop,
don't take out your phones and take any
photos of what's going on because, yeah,
it's confidential.
As I'm sure you can understand.
Our town halls say will be about an hour.
We've got a lot to try and get through.
We're going to be talking about the
strategy, of course,
I'm sure you're all expecting that,
and Chuck will be up in a second to talk
about that.
We're going to deep dive into Innovation
Nodes and about Agile ways of working.
We're going to have our regional presidents
come up and talk about brand stickiness,
explaining what that is and how we can
work with that.
We're also going to add a little extra
layer of interactivity because we are
live and we want to take advantage of
that.
So we're going to test that out.
We will have some time at the end for
questions and answers.
So we'll do all the Q&
A at the end. To submit your questions,
we're going to use a platform called
Mentimmeter.
So if you're here in the room,
you can you can come in either using the
QR code, and people at home as well,
You can use the QR code or you can use
that URL at the top and the login code.
You can submit your questions at any
point you're in the town hall,
but we'll take them at the end.
We're going to show this QR code again a
bit later on in case you need it.
The questions will be anonymous.
If you want to add your name and where
you are, that would be great,
but there's no need for that.
And then with that.
I hand over to Chuck to talk about the
strategy.
I like it.
A little less talk, a little more action.
I heard that might have been a joke
around here a couple years ago.
Yeah.
So we're going to lean into that.
Yeah.
First of all,
great to see all of our colleagues around
the world.
That was really cool.
Not all of our colleagues,
but some of our colleagues around the
world.
And thanks everyone for joining,
especially those that are up super early
or Owen up super late.
Really appreciate it.
And then it is great to be here
broadcasting from Sundsvall.
And the choice to roll out our strategy
formally here in Sundsvall was very
purposeful and symbolic.
Because of course,
this is the area that is our birthplace
right as a company where Per founded the
company in '67, right?
With a purpose,
which was to allow all individuals,
irrespective of their abilities to get
out and explore the world with
independence, right?
And I think that what you'll see is that
with our go forward strategy refresh,
we are very much getting back to and
we'll be focusing a lot on our heritage,
which is a obsession over our end users
and serving them through innovation,
right?
This is our founding.
So very purposeful for us to be doing
this here from Sundsvall today.
And I want to start by telling you the
time is now.
What do I mean by that?
The time is now.
There has not been a more exciting time,
I would argue,
in human history to be in our industry,
the assistive mobility industry.
And why do I say that?
Number one,
we have a tremendous increase in the
number of individuals who require
assistive mobility equipment and that is
fueled by an aging population, right?
And also an increasing number of chronic
conditions and all of that is driving
actually tremendous growth in the number
of individuals who require the kinds of
things that we do.
Super exciting.
Equally exciting for me,
because I'm kind of a nerd anyways,
I like to pretend I'm a tech nerd,
is the technology that's developing right
now around the world.
If you're watching what is happening in
robotics right now,
which are essentially right actuator
driven machines with electronics kind of
like what we do in many cases,
it's incredible what's happening in the
field of robotics.
It's incredible what's happening right
now in the area of computer brain
interface,
whether that's implantables or non
implantables that can actually read our
brain waves and translate our thoughts
into physical action.
Think about that.
And then also coming in from the side,
right is what's happening with AI right
now.
And so I would say, right,
the technology that's occurring,
the market growth that's that is
occurring in terms of the number and of
individuals that need our solutions.
There could not be a more exciting time
in all of human history to be an
assistive mobility.
At least that's how I feel.
And at the same time,
we have to change with an extreme sense
of urgency or we will become a dinosaur,
right?
On one hand,
we have tremendous downward cost pressure.
So the same trends that are driving the
number of individuals that need our
equipment, aging population,
new technology,
increasing chronic conditions,
those trends are putting tremendous
downward pricing pressure on healthcare
systems around the world, right?
And so that's a lot of downward pricing
pressure in many of the markets that we
serve.
We have a layer,
a dealer layer that separates us as a
manufacturer from the end users and the
payers that we work with.
And those dealers are consolidating,
right?
And as they get bigger and stronger,
they're consolidating their purchasing
power.
And So what does that mean?
They're putting the pressure on us all
the time to deliver lower cost.
These are big challenges for us, right?
And if we don't adapt,
if we continue to sell the world's most
expensive products, it's going to be hard,
right?
And then we have competition,
existing competition that quite frankly
in many cases, not all,
but in some cases anyways,
has been out innovating us over the last
few years, right?
And these are existing competitors
bringing more products to market faster
than we have,
but they're not the ones that I'm
actually the most concerned about.
I'm concerned about a new breed of
competitor, A robotics FIRST competitor,
largely from Asia that is hyper fast,
super low cost and coming at our industry
from the side, right,
in a completely different way.
And again, if we don't adapt,
and I think this is true frankly,
for many industries,
if not all industries around the world,
if we don't adapt and change,
we could go the way of the dinosaurs,
right?
So it was the best of times and it was
the worst of times, right?
A tremendous opportunity for us here to
to move into the future and not only
create a world that is that leverages
this new technology to not only aid
individuals with mobility impairments,
but potentially eliminate those mobility
limitations all together.
But we've got to adapt because the
competition is coming strong, right?
So how do we do it?
So as you've heard me kind of drop these
little nuggets and bombs,
maybe on Viva Engage,
we have a new strategy that I think I
hope you'll find is actually quite simple,
simple to say, hard to do.
So hopefully we can remember it and it
consists of three strategic imperatives
and they're pretty simple.
Number one,
increase our Pace of Innovation.
What do I mean by that?
What do we mean by that?
We mean we want to cut the time from
concept to launch in half, right,
increasing our pace of innovation.
At the same time,
these are not just big platform launches,
but we need to continuously release
features and new functionality through
what we would call more minor launches
with a target of 4 to 8 per year per
platform to think of it very much like
software and then step change
improvements in our platforms every 18
months or so.
It's a big change, right,
and a big challenge and we'll talk a
little bit about how we think we can do
that.
Number 2, implement Extreme Manufacturing.
And what this is,
is really standardizing and investing in
our manufacturing processes in a way that
we have not done in a long time so that
we can both support this rapid pace of
innovation and significantly drive down
our product cost in response to the macro
trends that I talked about, right?
And so here we're targeting a 35 to 45%
decrease in product cost and that cannot
come at the expense of quality or
functionality, right?
So it's really challenging. Number 3
simple to say,
hard to do again is to create Brand
Stickiness.
So outside of our products,
how do we establish Permobil, and all of
our brands, as the most desired brands in
the world in the space of assistive
mobility and create that user loyalty
that transcends the industry dynamics and
the pricing pressure that we get, right.
So that we have users that frankly are
demanding our products irrespective of
the cost.
That's what brand stickiness is right now
To enable these three strategic
imperatives.
We have what we call our twin
accelerators.
And I will argue that the most important
thing is actually the one in the upper
right,
and that's our Culture and the culture
change that we need to drive in order to
accomplish this.
We're going to have to dramatically shift
our way of thinking and acting in our
organization.
And that's from the boardroom to the
factory floor, all of us, right?
And I'll talk a bit more about what I
mean by that,
but it's a major culture change that we
all have to be a part of.
And then the fifth one,
which some might argue Charlotta is the
most exciting is AI.
And we are leaning all the way in to AI
and we will build our own AI core as part
of the strategy over the next 18 to 24
months.
That will help us capture and translate
market insights into innovation,
will help us drive quality manufacturing
efficiency and commercial effectiveness,
and ultimately help us orchestrate our
decentralized global organization,
our AI mother brain.
So these are the five elements,
if you will, to our new strategy.
We will not accomplish all of this next
month as much as I may push or next year,
right?
This is a blueprint for a multi year
strategy,
a strategic vision for us to solidify our
place in the future as the leader of
assistive mobility.
So let me take one layer off of each of
these and I'll try to do it pretty
quickly here,
switching over to accelerate our pace of
innovation.
And if I just focus your attention,
you can't see my pointer to the kind of
the four middle boxes there,
what we call the pivotal enablers.
What are the key enablers of bringing
this to life?
Number one,
it is creating cross functional teams
with clear ownership,
global cross functional teams with clear
ownership around our product areas, right?
You've heard me refer to these maybe as
Innovation Nodes because I think of,
I think of us a little bit like a,
an organism, right?
And we have nodes that are all connected.
These are highly autonomous,
empowered innovation units without a lot,
and we've been talking about it this week,
without a lot of governance and need for
reporting.
We want to cut through the bureaucracy in
the red tape to make decisions and drive
innovation with speed and impact.
Number 2 is implementing Agile ways of
working.
Now what does this mean to me?
For me, agile,
I don't care about the theory or the
terminology.
What Agile is to me is that we disregard
the need for long range plans that try to
predict every step that's necessary in a
product development effort and then
predict where we're going to be in 18 to
24 months with accuracy.
But rather we focus on how do we drive
velocity in short incremental sprints.
And what we know is that if we do this
and we do it really quickly,
we will learn things in these sprints
that help us take the next sprint.
And it gets back to this idea of pace of
change.
The faster we drive these sprints,
the faster we learn,
the faster we iterate.
And this is how we can both accelerate
our pace of innovation for large
platforms, but also drive
continuous product releases.
And Catharina is going to talk more about
this here in a little bit #3 we need a
system,
a global quality management system that
works with us, not against us, right?
And so here we will digitalize,
standardize and streamline our QMS to
support our innovation,
commercial and manufacturing processes.
This is actually already far underway,
and I think we'll be here sooner than we
might than we might think.
And then the fourth piece is strategic
partnerships and M&A.
And over the last 10 years or so, right,
we have really focused our M&A
efforts on expanding our
product portfolio.
And of course, we may continue to do that.
But here we also seek to bring in new
technology,
new competence and new capacity through
partnerships and M&A.
So these are the four key enablers for
accelerating our pace of innovation.
And you can see the KPIs that we
see there on the right.
If I switch over quickly to implementing
extreme manufacturing here,
the three key enablers here 1 is a lot
around our supply chain and thinking
differently about our supply chain.
And this is moving from a mindset of
really striving for the lowest cost part
at day one at launch and focusing on how
do we construct our supply chain to
enable our pace of innovation.
And that likely means working with more
geographically close suppliers and also
in key areas,
actually bringing that manufacturing in
house.
So we can work in an iterative fashion
with our innovation teams, right?
It doesn't mean we won't strive for
product cost.
Of course we will,
but we'll take those in the after launch
sprint cycles, right?
And we'll continuously work to to
simplify our components and streamline
our processes and drive
our costs down.
Digitalization,
we are highly fragmented today across our
manufacturing units and that presents a
lot of challenges to us: master data
through to ERP systems.
So here we will streamline and digitalize
our processes on one global platform,
which will then feed our AI core moving
forward.
Just that one is a huge,
huge initiative in and of itself.
And then last but not least,
modular automation.
So here we will focus on automating those
repetitive, and frankly tasks that's that
maybe present even safety risk, so that we
can both improve our output,
improve our employee morale and improve
the quality of what we're developing.
And we'll do this in a modular way.
And these are robotic systems that we can
use for multiple tasks and move those
around with flexibility.
The three key enablers of extreme
manufacturing, creating brand stickiness.
So here we continue to focus on localized
commercial operations.
What we know is actually the number one
way to create brand stickiness is to be
locally relevant and highly responsive in
the markets that we serve, right?
We've got to be there.
We've got to speak their language right,
our our dealers and our end users.
And that requires a a hyper localized
approach.
So we'll continue the focus there.
One Permobil customer experience,
I think you've probably heard a lot about.
I'll just touch on a brief briefly.
It's basically how do we take the broad
assortment,
product assortment that we have today,
cushions and backs and chassis and and
instead of asking our customers to treat
us as multiple different companies,
we actually bring that together through
the per mobile store and we allow
solutions to be ordered, delivered,
invoiced as a solution to our end users.
This really leverages the portfolio that
we've built over the last decade.
And our aim here is again to be the
easiest to do business with supplier in
the world.
And we know when we do that,
our dealers even though we might be a
little more expensive,
they're going to want to work with us,
right, because we make their life easy.
We also reduce errors on their part.
And then the last piece here is end user
engagement amplification.
And here again,
what we're talking about is working both
digitally and physically to really engage
with our installed base through social
media, right through communities,
through community events.
There's one actually happening this
weekend or next weekend in Nashville
where we're bringing end users together.
And it's how do we unleash the power of
our installed base, right,
to advocate for Permobil products.
It's very much a direct to consumer kind
of marketing approach, right?
So these are the three pieces here.
As I mentioned,
we have our twin accelerators which will
help us unlock these.
And I want to touch quickly on culture,
evolved culture paradigm,
implementation of a true learning culture.
Those things come together a little bit.
And what we're after is a couple of
things.
One, an agile mindset from everyone,
right?
So how can we take action now,
learn and iterate?
And that means that we as management,
we need to trust and empower our people.
So a big part of this,
and we've been talking about a lot this
week,
is actually how do we cut the bureaucracy,
remove as much reporting as possible to
free time and to trust and empower our
people who are doing the work to take the
actions, take the decisions.
And here it's a lot about also asking you
to identify ruthlessly those areas where
we have waste, waste and processes,
non value add activities,
challenge those and remove them.
So we create the capacity to do the
things that create real value, right?
That's a big part of what we need to do
here.
And then we're going to implement a,
a new or an enhanced employee
communication system because we believe
very much in transparent frequent
communication.
It's not going to be perfect,
as you've seen already,
but we want to be super open and we need
everyone to be able to be on the platform,
to be engaged,
to be part of the conversation, right?
And so we'll need some new tools and
processes for for how to do that.
That's culture.
The last piece, AI core,
I've already talked about it a little bit
here.
This is about building our own machine
learning stack,
connecting all of our data inflows into
the system and driving insights and
democratizing those insights across the
entire organization.
So my vision for this would be that at
someday in the not too distant future,
we would have AI agents that are
constantly combing the Internet and
social media platforms to gather insights
on what are people saying about our
products.
And maybe it's combining those with the
call logs that we get from our customer
experience and customer support teams and
combining those with the insights from
our sales teams through our CRM system
and all of this data flowing in, right?
And it might be able to tell us in real
time, hey,
there seems to be people are talking
about,
I'll just say a quality problem with a
component.
People are talking about this.
And then combining those insights,
our AI mother brain will look at our 3D
CAD drawings for that part and maybe
generate a potential design improvement,
calculate the cost of that improvement,
determine how we can manufacture it,
and to deliver to our product owners and
ROI business case for rapid
implementation.
This is here today.
It's about us pulling in all of the
information systems into a single fabric
and then building our machine learning
algorithm on top of that to drive
insights and actions.
That's a glimpse of the vision that we
have for the AI core.
Exciting.
I think it's pretty exciting.
These five elements, Number one,
they reinforce each other.
So I view it as a flywheel, right?
Whenever we can improve our manufacturing
efficiency and implementation of new
products in the manufacturing flow that
helps us deliver products faster.
It helps us become more sticky in the
marketplace, right?
Whenever we lean into the cultural change
that we have, of course,
it helps us drive all three of these
areas, right?
Whenever we drive faster pace of
innovation,
it creates more brand stickiness, right?
And so this is a bit of a flywheel.
It's self reinforcing.
And I will tell you, in my view,
that is actually our core competitive
advantage in the future.
It's not a specific feature or function,
but it's actually our way of working.
Once we get this machine running,
that becomes our competitive advantage.
This isn't going to be easy.
I think as you hear this,
these are quite ambitious targets, right?
And again,
we won't achieve them next year.
Probably that will make a lot of progress,
but it's going to take all of us and all
of you to lean in.
We're probably going to work harder than
we've ever worked before.
I'll just tell you right now, right?
But that work,
my promise to you is that work is going
to be increasingly value add and not
bureaucratic.
The only way we can really ignite the
spark that we need here to regain our
competitive edge from an innovation
standpoint.
So let me pause and stop there and we'll
get on with the rest of the program where
we dive deeper into these elements.
But I only have one question for you guys.
Are you with me?
Yeah.
All right, Romit.
Thank you very much, Chuck.
Katrina, would like to invite you
onto the stage.
Chuck, you can help me with the furniture?
That's that's my job.
Yes.
And I will grab one more,
So please take a seat.
We're going to talk about innovation
nodes and agile ways of working.
Excuse me.
So many of us will have seen the videos
you put out over the last month,
I guess Chuck talking about innovation
notes, many of us will have seen it,
but let's be conscious, not everybody has.
So we take a step back and say, so you,
you touched upon it before,
in the overall overview of the strategy.
But what are innovation nodes?
OK, what's an innovation node?
We know there's a lot of evidence that
small cross functional fully empowered
teams drive
innovation velocity and that is in short,
what an innovation node is, right?
It's a relatively,
we want to keep them as small as possible,
as delayered as possible, right?
In a structure where we have a clear
owner that can take a decision and a team
that is focused on the task at hand,
right?
I mean, that's,
the idea of an innovation node.
Think of it as a independent startup
company within the company.
OK, so that's going to be the structure.
Now how do we want these innovation nodes
to work?
Catharina, that one's for you.
Yes.
So we want to work in an agile way and
this is something that you heard Chuck
talk a lot about already.
Agile.
What does that actually mean?
Well,
it means that we will work in iterative
fast feedback loops.
We will have all the people that is
needed into the working team.
It's a cross functional team working
together, fixing,
working with a specific problem.
And they do that in those iterative
processes where you get,
you learn fast and you fail fast so that
you learn again and then you become
better and better and better all the time.
And this will then create speed into the
organization.
So taking away all the obstacles,
taking away the waste that we have today
and move with a very quick way forward.
OK.
And so I'm guessing there are other
approaches we could have taken,
even if you use the same structure of
innovation nodes,
we could have taken other approaches.
So why have we chosen Agile as our
framework methodology,
bearing in mind what you said, Chuck,
about that's the label.
We don't have to worry about the exact
definition.
We will apply our own take on it.
Why take that general approach?
Yeah, Yeah.
And it is the label.
The label is not important.
When I started acting in an agile way 25
years ago,
I didn't know it was called Agile, right?
It was just how do you take action,
learn from it, and fail fast,
as Catharina said.
Now, of course,
there have been a lot of studies and
research that shows without a doubt,
that it delivers not only the fastest
innovation cycles,
but actually the best quality and the
most the products that are received most
favorably by the market, right,
because you're constantly learning in
short cycles.
And then I would also just say,
if I could layer on top of that and,
and some folks in this room have heard me
say this, you know,
in a waterfall based approach,
we spend a lot of time,
weeks in some cases,
trying to plan out what the project plan
is going to be.
And the only thing we know is that it's
wrong, right?
It's the only thing you know,
And then we ask our teams to come and
report to us and management once a month
and tell us and explain to us why it was
wrong.
I don't think that's very fun.
It's not really a very motivating style
to work in.
And so in an agile mindset,
we focus on taking action and learnings
here and now, right?
And you take a leap of faith that it's
going to lead to a product launch date
that is early as possible.
And if I may just kind of add on to your,
so we talked about quality here and
saying that.
So how can agile actually then improve
quality?
Well,
by getting those fast feedback loops then
you understand.
So where is the problem?
What quality problem do I need to solve?
And then you can fix it quickly.
You don't need to go through a full
process of, you know, decision for us,
documentations, etcetera.
You get that feedback into the team right
away.
We will be able to do this from the start.
Most likely not,
but we will learn as we do as well.
And what study shows also is that this
will actually also create a lot higher
employee satisfaction because you as
employees,
you will know what you're focusing on and
we will work together in solving the
problem.
It's not just that you're handing over
something to another organization and
saying, hey,
I've now done this and now you two need to
do this.
No, we work together in solving these
problems.
So that's going to be we're going to see
people thinking or we want people to
think more about the full process -
the full... not using the word process -
the the bigger picture. The flow. Yes,
you need you want things to go fast.
You want you want everybody in
organization to help out to make things
go fast,
not just your particular part of the of
the wheel.
OK.
Now, when you first announced
on Viva Engage
that we were going to have
innovation notes and of course you said
that we would have one for our next
generation of SmartDrive products.
I'm sure you've had this question before.
I'm sure everyone has the same question.
What's the next innovation nodes that
we're going to be seeing?
Oh, boy, that's a good one.
It's an obvious one.
Yeah, Yeah, it's good.
I mean,
I would say I don't know if this is to me
or to Katharina, it was for you.
OK.
All right.
According, I mean,
I think they become quite obvious, right?
Of course,
we will have one or more nodes around
power, right?
Ultimately,
this will be the way we work with all of
our innovation across all of our product
segments.
And then it's a matter of what's the
right balance based on that particular
product area for it to be a large node
with lots of teams under it or a small
node with maybe just one team, right.
And that will depend on the platform that
you're working with.
And this is something that I didn't hit
on, if I may and I'll just keep talking.
So you'll have to is this really requires
a platform thinking it's a mind shift.
The way that we have funded our projects
in the past is we've said we're going to
we need a business case and we're going
to fund a product launch and what...
and then we're probably not going to fund
it again, right?
It's a one time solitaire, if you will.
And what that means is we then need to
get every feature and every function and
the best quality and everything we could
possibly ever want in that product during
that product development cycle because
we're probably not going to come back
around and work on it again, right?
That's a product mindset,
if you will.
And here the product nodes or the
innovation nodes are going to be focused
on platforms.
So we will fund these as platforms and
therefore adopt a what we,
as you may have heard,
a minimal lovable product mindset to get
it out quickly,
but we'll continue to fund that platform
over the life over and over again.
Over and over again.
Yes, work with constant improvements,
as well.
But in general, if you understand,
So what are the next innovation notes?
I think that it's would be easy to say we
have certain product areas that we are
focusing on right now and of course,
they will become in one way or the other
innovation notes.
Absolutely.
OK, Exciting.
So we'll see those kind of formal,
informal announcements coming up over the
next days, weeks and months.
I was going to say even communications
could be an innovation node,
but we already decided that the
definition of a,
of a innovation node is you have to have
at least one engineer.
We're happy to take an engineer onto
our team.
No, I have no qualms about that.
Some of my best friends are engineers.
You can hear that those are friends of
the team.
Yes.
OK, thank you very much.
Sorry,
but maybe then just to comment again,
then is it only the kind of the
innovation notes that are going to work
in, in, in an agile matter, Chuck?
No, no, we all need an agile mindset,
right?
The way we fund projects and areas will
be agile, right?
We need to instead of locking ourselves
into rigid platforms.
It's, it's about pace of change.
So maybe just kind of a call for action.
Then from from my side,
it's actually done to say, hey,
be curious and try to understand what
does Agile mean and what would actually
mean for you.
So everyone works in Agile,
everyone be curious.
Nodes will be focused on product
development,
but not only product development,
innovation in general.
Yep, great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll see you back at the end for the
Q&A section.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
So and of course that kind of gives us a
great segue into our next part of the
town hall,
which is the reason why we're all here,
the reason why we're all at Permobil is
our end users.
You know,
our core value is user first and that's a
focus and we talk about  pace of
innovation,
getting products out to market earlier,
but it's not really products to market,
it's products to individuals because
we're here to innovate for individuals.
Last week I had an opportunity to meet a
fantastic young entrepreneur who talked
to us about about her,
her start up that she's running.
She also happens to be a a Pantera user.
Some of you, especially the Swedes,
might remember her from when she was on
the first series of the Swedish TV show
Shark Tank or Dragon's Den,
depending on which country it's aired in.
And she famously turned down 3 investors
who offered to invest in a startup
because it didn't really give her what
she needed.
So let's hear her story.
Thank you very much, Alexandra,
for giving up your time to to be here
with us today.
Do you want me to start off just telling
us a few words about yourself?
Yeah, of course.
Thank you for having me with you today.
So my name is Rim Alexander Halfya.
People call me Alexandra.
I am 33 and I'm an entrepreneur.
I'm going to talk about it soon.
My company Combify,
which is a tech company within the
real estate industry,
but I'm also a humanitarian and a public
speaker.
So you mentioned that you're one of the
co-founders of Combify.
Can you just explain what that is?
Yeah.
So Combify is a tech platform that
gathers all of the information on
property and unbuilt properties in all of
Sweden in one place.
So we help property developers to find
unbuilt land so that they could have
their next project,
and also for architects to find where the
public tenders and the competitions for
them to end jobs.
So yeah, of course when it comes to tech,
AI is the next big thing. Everyone is talking
about to see how they can use it.
How are you using AI in Combify?
Yeah, so definitely.
You know, like when open AI became
a trend, like ChatGPT,
it was the last couple of years,
before that, we spent so many years
in gathering data about all the ongoing
and planned construction projects
historical and in the future.
All of the data on property ownership
information, all of the building permits,
all of the tenders and we found a way
with machine learning to gather this data
from different websites in different
formats and to connect them to
the right property.
So we've already been doing that
with open AI.
It gave us a opportunity to leverage this
data, that we have spent so much time and
resources to build.
So now we can, actually, instead of,
you know,
building a platform that whenever
you have an extra data set,
you have to build a new feature for it to
show this data set.
Now our users,
a property developer for example,
can just chat with our platform and you
will be met with a question, for example,
what do you want to know about this
property?
And I'm like,
who owns it and what's going to be built
in the area for the next 5 years?
Anything that may obstruct a building of
a school here and etcetera.
So now, because I always talk about AI
without data quality data is useless.
So now we can really leverage the power
of AI and make the information even more
accessible to our users.
So I assume that you do a lot of your
work on video calls as many of us do
these days.
How do you find people react to you when
you meet them face to face when perhaps
you first met them on a video call?
I mean,
it's a bit different from now in
comparison to before.
So before I've always been met, you know,
like with respect and all of that.
But in the beginning people before you're
like having a meeting,
let's say that I would have a meeting the
first time in someone else's office and
not online.
So that would be the first time that
person who like hears me talk about my
business.
So I see a bit of a lag, you know, oh,
but the image does not really match in a
positive way.
So I think I'm breaking stereotypes
whenever that happens.
And so, yeah, in the beginning I used to,
you know, like explain a lot, you know,
like why I'm in a wheelchair.
That happened in a car accident when I
was a teenager and all of that.
But then I understood later on because
now I'm not only a person in a wheelchair,
I am a woman.
I am young.
I come from another background than,
you know, like originally Swedish.
So I'm breaking a lot of stereotypes and
I'm very man dominated industry.
It sounds very inspiring what you're
doing and facing or breaking down so many
of the different barriers that you
mentioned.
So thank you very much for your time.
Thank you.
So unfortunately we had to cut that
interview short for for what we could
show today,
but we are going to make the full length
interview available through the usual
internal channels
afterwards.
You can hear about her experience being
on the TV show Dragons Den Shark Tank,
as well as her feedback to our R&
D department about what changes she would
like to see.
Now I'd like to welcome Bruce,
Todd and Marcus - had to make sure I got
the order right there.
Here to talk about Brand Stickiness.
So let's start from the very beginning.
Let's keep it simple.
What is Brand Stickiness, Bruce?
Yeah.
So brand stickiness,
it's it's not really just a marketing
tool.
It has to do with every way we interact
with our users that whether it be product
development,
whether it be customer service,
whether it be our sales reps or our
marketing people or through our digital
channels.
When you think of a company like Apple,
it's very,
very difficult if you're a Apple fan to
actually walk by the Apple Store without
wanting to go in.
When they launch a new product,
you want to be the first one there in
line with millions of people either
online or offline.
They've hooked you,
they've got you so that any time that
they launch a product,
you know you want to be there.
And it's critical for us at Permobil to
create this brand stickiness.
We've done this in the past.
Permobil in Sweden is recognized as a
wheelchair independent of what brand it is
ROHO in Canada, for example,
is trained in the PT schools.
So when somebody leaves their training,
they prescribe a ROHO cushion for people.
Same in Korea.
And for us,
it's going to be really important that we
look at it more than just marketing.
It has to do with product innovation,
has to do with customer service,
has to do with the Permobil Store,
getting our spare parts out to the users
as fast as possible.
So you mentioned that we've done it in
the past,
but I'm guessing we're also doing it now
as well.
So I'm going to challenge all the three
of you to give us some concrete examples
of how we're using brand stickiness and
how we're going to use brand stickiness
running forward.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, Chuck already stole some of
my notes,
but one of them is the Permobil Store.
And first off,
I have to say thanks to everybody in IT,
marketing, customer experience,
sales operations for getting the
Perombil Store up and running in the US with
power parts and SmartDrive.
So hats off to Katrin and your entire
team for making that happen.
That's away to get sticky with our ATPs
or customers that actually spec out our
product.
They're either going in there and it's so
easy and intuitive and quick,
but also be able to get that quote
immediately and be able to use it as a
training tool to show their their,
their end user or their therapist what
that chair is going to look like.
Also being able to integrate that into a
key customer system.
So we're going to take it to the next
level to where when they're quoting out a
product like a Permobil power chair,
when they submit it,
it goes into their system.
So they're not having to re-key it in,
make it as easy as possible to do
business with Permobil.
OK, thanks so much, Marcus.
So similar we have today already areas
either in countries or in products where
we have already brand stickiness.
And I mean,
I think one really related to this is our
adaptation customization business.
When you're out there and you have
special needs,
complex needs as a user and you go to
hire the, a provider or to rep,
a middle central in, in Scandinavia,
they will immediately think of us as per
mobile because we are the ones that are
providing the solutions and technically
competition can't.
So here you have a very strong stickiness
already today.
Same is for service.
We sometimes are called even to
competitor chairs because the service
that we are able to provide out in the
field is beyond everybody else.
But that's two areas where we already
have the stickiness.
And another thing that we have just
launched is the CRM.
Sorry, I just
need to mention that it's a great one
So customer relation management system
where now we are able to connect all kind
of information and data.
And that means that doing business with
us in the future is much,
much easier than it is today because
customer support, service, sales rep,
everybody that our customers connect have
the same data as a base and can serve
them without any knowledge missing.
Bruce, can you give us one example from,
from your region?
Yeah.
So in, in APAC,
we've spent a lot of time focusing on end
user engagement,
really trying to go grass roots.
You might have seen in New Zealand,
we did a Power in the Park program,
we had 1500 users show up to Eden Park,
kind of the national stadium in Auckland
for a large event.
We're going to replicate that do that in
Australia for next year.
And I know the other regions are also
looking at opportunities to have these
end user programs that aren't Expos,
that aren't shows or about the community
and building community and that's
building stickiness across the region.
Definitely.
Thanks very much.
Before we go, actually,
I'm going to come back to you Todd,
because I'm aware of another another area
that you weren't on which I might have
cut you short on.
So I apologise for that.
And that's the Insiders Club.
Could you give us a few words about the
Insiders Club?
It's a digital and community based way to
engage with their end users through
social media.
And if you know about Harley Davidson,
one of the strongest brands in the world,
they have a thing called Hog - Harley
Owners Group.
It's a worldwide club of of people that
own Harley's and they're able to get
resources, connect with other individuals,
go to different community events across
the across the globe.
And we want to do we want to replicate
that across the Americas and probably
throughout the world, right?
Yes, absolutely.
Excellent.
Thank you very much for your time.
We're going to move on swiftly as well.
So now we come to our next...
Sorry.
Thank you very much, gentlemen.
So now we come to our next
part of the town hall where we're going
to ask you guys to choose what do you
want to hear about next.
We have prepared three different
potential topics to discuss and you get
to vote on it.
Please go ahead,
grab your phone or you can log in using
the Mentimeter URL and code at the top.
We're going to,
there's three options there.
One is about Speed Control Dial and the
lessons learnt from that product recall
we just did recently, market correction.
Talking about how we're using
the data we're getting from Permobil
Connect and the power chairs.
And the third one is about the future of
Permobil and AI.
It's very hotly contested.
I know some GM members have got some
money writing on which one they think is
going to win.
Someone's going to be poorer.
Someone's going to be richer.
We're going to leave this open for a
little bit longer.
Let's see how the results are going.
I thought we would see the live results.
Yeah, I'm.
I'm looking at the tech desk.
There we go.
I think the relevant people should get
themselves ready.
OK,
So it's Charlotta and Katrin to talk
about the future of Perombil and AI.
I'm going to,
I'm going to call it now.
I don't think Speed Control Dial is going
to catch up.
Thank you very much.
Yes, thank you a lot for voting.
And we had it riding and I actually bet
it against myself.
So let's see how this goes.
Do you want to stand or do you want to take
a seat, as you prefer? Stand.
Yeah, we stand.
I have a lot of note cards for this,
so this one's going to come to you.
So the new strategy talks about an AI
core and AI is an accelerator.
How is that different to how we're
working with AI at the moment?
I think one of the key differences that
today we are using AI a lot, right,
But we are using platforms that the other
has developed from us.
We have the Sana, we have the Co-pilot,
etcetera.
One of the key things that we are
committing to right now is to build our
own AI engine and then our own AI core.
So that's a big difference.
Now we like customize at Permobil.
We have a whole division here producing
amazing bits of work.
We've even plugged out CAISA AI and the
search tool into the customization.
So why not use the ready made
AI platforms that are out there?
That would surely would be the fastest
way to get about it.
Talking about pace of acceleration,
why not just buy in what's there?
Yeah, we could do that.
Is this working?
Is this switched on?
No.
OK, very good.
Thank you.
I only work with IT.
So are you going to say this is a
comms issue?
You know you don't have an engineer,
right?
Yeah.
Anyway, sorry, yes.
So a resource in my team said that if we
can buy the solution,
someone else can as well.
And then we're not unique.
So if we want to be different,
then let's build our own AI core and
Chuck call it the Mother Brain.
Yes.
And if we do this ourselves, we can,
we can be a bit flexible in modeling.
We need to be unique and we can,
in some cases we can,
we can use a standard model and adapt
it to to what we need.
And in other areas where we be need to be
unique,
we need to build our own Permobil model
and train it on our CAD data, etc.
And then if we, if we train this model,
we can use multiple models and be
flexible and,
and use the best in both worlds.
And then this backbone,
this mother brain that we then build,
we can build all our AI solutions on top
of that.
And I mean, the,
the AI areas and the solutions we have so
far, they're useful,
but they're built in isolation.
OK, thank you very much.
Now,
can you give us some some use case
examples how we were going to be able to
use this AI core?
Well, I had a great example,
but Chuck just used that when he went
through the strategy.
But if we then take, if we then take that,
and if we have that suggestion that CAD
drawings can also be used and improved
and we can test it digitally and we can
even hopefully have it being prototyped
directly.
And that type of quickness that can kind
of acceleration will really help us with
our pace of innovation.
Yeah.
And an easier example is perhaps to just
apply computer vision in our assembly
line to have an extra set of eyes in on
each station so that we can easily detect
if there's a defect made or yeah,
we can reduce rework and improve quality.
So how quickly do you think you'll be
able to see this kind of tricking down
and working in our, you know,
everyday work?
I heard something about not planning time
plans so forth.
But I mean,
our initial idea is that we start with
one area or one team and then we learn
from that experience and then we expand
to the next area and to the next team.
So you're opening yourself up to which is,
which will be the first area,
which is a good question, right?
So we just heard the new strategy and it
is new as well for GM.
So let's start,
let's do the prioritization and we will
come back to that.
But again, we are not starting from zero.
We're already doing things in AI.
But I don't think that the greatest ideas
will come only from the strategy.
I think that when you all give input on
how you can truly change the way you're
working,
that's when we will find the real great
examples.
OK.
Thank you very much.
We're going to move swiftly on.
We're going to invite the rest of the GM
to come back up or to come back on the
stage.
Yeah,
so invite people back on stage and those
who you can stay Charlotta, you can stay and
then those who haven't been on yet and
we're going to do our questions and
answers.
Let's see what's been coming through
going to come forward.
I'll sitting around the corner.
I like that here.
OK,
here's here's an easy quick one for you
guys.
Are there any of you take this maybe
Chuck you, you take this one.
Are you moving away from the strategic
house?
Yes.
OK, next question.
Not that it's wrong necessarily, right?
A lot of those principles have have
brought us here and we'll continue with
right.
But this is, yeah, this is a new,
a new fresh take on our strategy moving
forward.
Here's an interesting one.
So how can Permobil maintain it's
technological advantage globally and in
the US if to have this person's knowledge,
if to my knowledge we don't have a
dedicated data science or data mining
department to utilise AI manufacturing?
Charlotta looks ready for that.
Well,
I think that's one of the things that we
are saying in this strategy that we do
need. And we do need to invest in the
manufacturing.
And I think that we're going to need data
mining and data science in many different
areas, not just manufacturing.
So I agree, we need it.
OK.
With all of these major internal changes,
how do we ensure that we maintain our
culture and keep our focus on the users?
Emma,
you've not had a chance to say anything yet.
Thank you.
Yeah.
First of all,
I think we all can acknowledge that this
is a great company with a lot of
passionate people that are user focused.
So we have talked a lot about how do we
ensure that we bring that on the journey
that we are heading.
Building on that,
we also realise when we listen to the new
strategy that there are changes coming
and we are all needed to bring this
change to reality.
We all need to lean into what Agile means,
Independently if we work with product
development or something else.
So there will be definitely new element
to what this culture mean.
The one thing I really love about this
strategy, and that culture is part of it,
but that it also talks about how we will
empower teams and how we will collaborate
in the future working much more cross
functional because that will be one of
the key things if we are going to succeed.
OK, thank you, Emma.
So my feed is telling me that we've had a
lot of questions about AI and how we're
going to use it.
So I'm going to just pick a couple of
those.
Perhaps the most concrete of those,
which perhaps hasn't been addressed in
the previous discussion we just had is
how much are we planning to invest in AI
in the next 5 years?
Halota, you're,
you're the one with the wallet.
People tell me.
I think that that's the discussions that
we're having right now.
So first of all,
we need to understand what are all the
things that we want to do and how do we
fund them.
So I have to come back on that.
But yes,
many of these things that we are talking
about will require investments.
And that means that we are not only
talking about adding things,
that also means that we need to
prioritize on the things that we are
doing today.
But an exact amount I will not give you.
I'll come back on that.
That's fair enough.
That's fair.
Yeah.
So I think we're going to take two more
questions because I'm just also conscious
of time.
So this question is,
do we see a need to expand our product
portfolio further or access to new
markets?
If so, where do we see big potentials?
So Todd,
do you want to take that one or or does
anyone know help him out?
The answer is yes, obviously.
Can we get his mic?
Just take your own.
Maybe take the handheld.
The, the answer is yes,
we need to expand markets, but we we look,
we're looking at areas outside of the
complex rehab space,
but also within the complex rehab space
where we have the white spots.
That's one area that I know the product
development team is working on as well as
M&A.
So the answer is we'll always be looking
at areas adjacent to our industry and
within our industry.
OK.
And who wants to take the question about
perhaps new markets?
Bruce looks give it to Bruce.
Bruce has got a big region coming from APAC.
We have most of the world's population in
APEC.
A lot of those markets are very
underserved for end users.
There is a big need for us to address
some of those key markets.
Not looking at them as a whole.
It would be very difficult to do say all
of India at once,
but looking potentially at the city play,
looking at specific cities where we can
access.
But this is going to have to be
calculated because there's so many things
we have to do.
We have to manage our resources and we
have to deploy where it makes the most
sense.
But definitely there's there's
opportunity with an ageing population and
more people with disabilities in those
areas.
OK, thank you very much, Bruce.
We've got lots of interesting questions
coming in.
I did see my colleagues who are going to
moderate them just send me a few.
But they just keep sending me.
They've got so many good ones.
I think what we'll do is we will take
these questions to you guys.
We will put together some answers and
then we'll share them with everyone later
on.
There's questions about ISO requirements,
robotics, when it comes to manufacturing,
where we will,
where will we be in 10 years time and so
on.
I think the last question I think is
perhaps the most concrete or perhaps not
concrete,
but it's something that everybody can
relate to and that's this one's going to
be for you.
Chuck.
I see you've avoided the Q&A
so far and that is when can we as
employees start or what?
Sorry,
what can we as employees start doing
differently?
Thank you for that question!
Yes, I mean I mentioned it a little bit.
I think there are several things.
One,
I want to empower all of you to focus on
identifying and eliminating non value add
activities throughout the organization.
We have a lot and that's how we
create space to do new things, right?
So and we don't have we don't even know
what all those things are, right.
So it has to come from within the
organization.
And that means being curious,
but also taking the initiative to say,
hey, team,
I don't think this is actually adding any
value to our products for our end users,
right?
And taking the initiative to do that.
That's number one.
I think Emma mentioned the other one and
and Catharina,
Maybe two others....
You got to be curious, right?
So please get curious about some of the
things that you're hearing about.
I know a lot of folks are asking AI,
what the heck does this mean, right?
Good.
Please get curious about what we're
talking about.
We shouldn't be the experts.
Again,
it should be the people that are the
experts on the topics.
And then this goes to all of the managers
out there and the line managers.
Please empower your people,
empower your people, right?
And that means trust them to do the right
thing.
And are we all going to get everything
right all the time?
Of course not, right.
We will all make mistakes.
But we have to trust and empower our
people.
And that by itself creates a big morale
boost and eliminates a lot of waste.
OK, thank you very much.
And it feels like, at least for me,
the this hour has flown by.
We've kind of moved it a bit of a
breakneck speed to try and squeeze
everything in.
Thank you, everyone, for participating.
Before we wrap up,
do you want to have any closing words for
us, Chuck?
Yeah.
I just want to say, you know,
there's a lot of information, right?
And there's a lot more information
behind it.
So as a next step,
we have a lot of continued communication
on this that you'll see online and
elsewhere.
I think even starting here in the next
few days, we'll publish a sort of a,
a narrative,
a memo that we'll walk through again,
the strategy, the why, the what,
the how - online.
And I would just invite you to,
to read it and engage on Viva Engage and
so we can create this future together.
OK.
Thank you very much everyone for your
time.